# PyCitySchools
In this exercise, I was asked to organize and analyze the standardized test results of a fictional school district in order to make strategic decisions around school budget and policy. The two datasets provided contained all student and test score information as well as school and budget information. All the analysis was done using python, pandas, and jupyter notebooks. The exercise asked to write up descriptions of two observable trends which I have included below as well as in the notebook.

### 1. Charter schools outperform District schools
When looking at the comparison of charter versus district schools as well as the top schools overall (in terms of percentage of students passing math and reading), it is clear that charter schools outperform district schools. Per the data, charter schools test higher in both reading and math and have they a higher percentage of students that pass both their reading and math tests. I think a common assumption would be that if a school had a higher budget per student, test scores would be higher as they'd have the financial resources to ensure the education of the students, but that doesn't seem to be the case. Most district schools have a higher budget per student than charter schools but are testing lower. I believe what really makes a difference is the size of the school. The data shows that the lower the student population, the higher their test results are. What is not included in this dataset are the class sizes, which I could see playing a big role in determining if school size is a factor. If charter and district schools had different student populations but the same class sizes, we would have to look somewhere else to determine why charter schools are outperforming district ones.

### 2. Students test the same across each grade
Per the data, when you look at each grade's average test score (by school), you get roughly the same score. Different schools will have different averages, but they remain consistent from 9th to 12th grade. To me, this would mean that students at each school are keeping up with each year's curriculum. In other words, as the subjects change or increase in complexity, the students' test scores show that they are understanding the new material as much as they did in previous grades.
